[slide 1]
general presentation (ask Raoul how to do it)

[slide 2]
Our current best model to describe the interactions of fundamental particles is the Standard Model, which is a gauge theory which includes the strong, weak and electromagnetic interactions. In particular, all particles are affected by the electro-weak interactions, but only quarks are affected by the strong force, whose theory is Quantum Chromodynamics.

[slide 3]
Although the SM has been extensively tested and confirmed at particle accelerators, there are many signals of Beyond-Standard-Model physics: in particular, the existence of dark matter and dark energy, which is inferred from astrophysical and cosmological data, the asymmetry between matter and antimatter and the non-vanishing masses of neutrinos, confirmed by solar neutrino observations.

[slide 4]
In the last decades, many models have been proposed to account for BSM physics: the most important ones, like supersymmetric models and dark matter models, include the existence of additional fundamental particle. Unfortunately, no signs of these particles have been detected by particle colliders: on the contrary, the large statistics accumulated in the last two decades has imposed strict constraints on their possible masses, making their frequent production unlikely.
The research paradigm has then shifted from direct searches to precision analises of particle scattering processes, in order to observer deviations from SM predictions.

[slide 5]
The study of hadronic scatterings is made difficult by the fact that hadrons are composite partons. However, a particular class of processes is particularly suited for precision searches: these are hard scattering processes. These scatterings are characterized by a large momentum transfer, which, thanks to the asymptotic freedom of QCD, menas that we can give a perturbative description of them. In particular, we can treat the individual partons inside each hadron as free particles, describing the process in terms of scatterings of point-particles.

[slide 6]
The quantitative description of this picture is given by the factorization theorem of QCD, which gives the relation between hadronic-scale physics and partonic-scale physics: the link between them are parton distribution functions, which encapsulate long-distance effects ignored by the perturbative description. It's important to note that PDFs have ultraviolet divergences which need to be renormalized with the appropriate counterterms, as we'll se later.

[slide 7]
Now, we can deal directly with partonic cross-sections, an we can perturbatively expand the cross-section in powers of the strong running coupling, which at the considered energy scale is of order 0.1. The terms beyond leading order are the N^nLO QCD corrections, and we distinguish between real and virtual corrections.

[slide 8]
To illustrate the difference at NLO, consider for example the Drell-Yan process: real corrections include additional initial- or final-state radiation, while virtual corrections include additional partonic loops.

[slide 9]
The main problem of NLO corrections is that they present infrared singularities in particular kinematic regimes. For example, we can see how gluon radiation gives rise to IR-singularities: when the energy of the gluon goes to zero we have a soft singularity, while when the gluon becomes collinear to the parton that emitted it we have a collinear singularity.

[slide 10]
We can regularize IR divergences with dimensional regularization, as we do with UV divergences too. Indeed, we can euristically see how both soft and collinear divergences can be expressed as poles in the dimensional parameter \epsilon.

[slide 11]
Although real and virtual corrections are divergent, the total cross-section given by their sum is IR-finite. To extract the divergences and obtain terms which can be numerically integrated, in order to compute the desired theoretical predictions, we use subtraction schemes. A subtraction scheme essentially locally removes the divergences from an integral by adding them back in a separate integral: this allows to conveniently show the pole cancellation and to numerically integrate the regularized integral. Our aim is to have a fully-general, local and analytic subtraction scheme, that is to find a general analytic expression for the f(0) factors which locally reproduces the pole structure of NLO QCD Corrections.

[slide 12]
A promising SS is the Nested Soft-Collinear SS, which represents the singular kinematic limits as operators and then, after isolating the individual potentially-unresolved partons with suitable partitions of unity, it extracts divergences by rewriting the identity operator as in the slide: the two counterterms S and \bar{S}C contain the IR-poles, while O_NLO is IR-safe.

[slide 13]
Carrying out the subtraction procedure, we obtain the IR-finite cross-section. The blue term is the regularized NLO cross-section, while the others are the subtraction counterterms: in particular, the yellow term comes from the collinear renormalization of PDFs, which we don't have time to discuss now, the green one is the finite part of the one-loop amplitude and the red one is the counterterm resulting from the extraction of IR-poles, and we want to show that this is in fact IR-finite.

[slide 14]
To do so, we use the fact that real and virtual singularities can be extracted as operators acting on the LO matrix element. Here we have the operator for soft divergences, and we note that it has a quadratic divergence.

[slide 15]
Then, we have the virtual operator, which has a general expression due to Catani, and it has a quadratic divergence too.

[slide 16]
Finally, we have the collinear operator, and contrary to the other two it has a simple pole in \epsilon.

[slide 17]
Given this, to show the explicit pole cancellation, we first prove that the quadratic poles cancel in the sum of I_S and I_V. Indeed, expanding in \epsilon, we see that quadratic diverges in fact cancel (the 1s highlighted in red), and using colour-conservation we arrive at this final expression.

[slide 18]
This is convenient, as it is the same and opposite expression as of the singular part of the collinear operator, thus showing that the total sum operator is IR-finite.

[slide 19]
My work has been that of generalizing this procedure to the case of massive final-state quarks. Indeed, they behave differently, as massive partons don't give rise to IR-singularities, as they're regulated by the mass. This means that only the soft and virtual operators change in presence of massive quarks, while the collinear operator remains unchanged.

[slide 20]
I then proceeded to define generalized the soft and virtual operators. To generalize I_S, I introduced a generalized angular integral I_{i,j}, whose Laurent coefficients are mostly known in the literature. The key properties of this integral is that its expression only depends on the nature of the i and j partons: it is IR-safe in the massive-massive case, it has a simple pole in the massive-massless case and a quadratic pole in the massless-massless case.

[slide 21]
The virtual operator has been generalized by Catani before I was born in a similar way to the I_S operator, that is introducing two generalized functions. The V_{i,j} function has a quadratic pole only in the massless-massless case, otherwise it has simple poles, while the \Gamma_i function has only a simple pole, depending on the anomalous dimension of the parton i.

[slide 22]
Given the fact that quadratic poles still depend only on massless partons, I considered again the sum of the soft and virtual operators: we can rewrite it as a sum on different partons, both massive and massless, a sum on massive partons and a sum on massless partons.
First, we consider the first sum: the general {i.j} term can be written as a pole term and a finite reminder.

[slide 23]
Upon farther analysis, the quadratic poles in the pole term cancel, and we're only left with a single simple pole for each massless index of \chi_{i,j}.

[slide 24]
Turning to the second sum, we see that it is manifestly IR-safe, as its poles explicitly cancel out-

[slide 25]
Finally, the third term has explicit simple poles by definition, as we can see on the slide.

[slide 26]
Hence, putting everything together, we obtain a pole structure equivalent to that of the massless-only case, which means that the general structure of the IR-finite cross-section doesn't change. The only difference is that the counterterm arising from the total operator now contains terms with massive logarithms, terms which I denoted with cyrillic letters.

[slide 27]
All in all, I showed that the pole structure of NLO QCD amplitudes essentially doesn't change when accounting for massive final state partons, and I computed the general analytic counterterms which, as expected, contain massive logariths for each massive quark flavour introduced.










